Imputed IHSG Forecasting using Linear Interpolation, LOCF, and Kalman Filter during the Covid-19 Outbreak

The Indonesia Composite Index (ICI or IDX Composite) can describe the development of the situation in the capital market and measure whether the price of the composite share price has increased or decreased, so forecasting is necessary as a form of monitoring. However, during the Covid-19 pandemic, the ICI experienced more extreme fluctuations than in previous years, so an appropriate forecasting and analytical approach was needed. The chosen forecasting method is Double Exponential Smoothing (DES). The result of the exploration showed that many missing data were found, so that the imputation was carried out using the linear interpolation, Last Observation Carried Forward (LOCF) and Kalman filter methods. In addition, we also want to know the effect of dataset distribution based on the occurrence of vaccination entry. Based on previous research results, it is known that the DES method is well used in forecasting the daily prices of the ICI because the MAPE generated from all variations of the dataset is very small. The best imputation method that produces the lowest MAPE is the LOCF method. In addition, it is also known that the entry of vaccinations caused the ICI price to experience an extreme and unexpected trend change. However, the distribution of the dataset based on the occurrence of vaccination entry does not significantly affect the forecasting ability of the DES method. This is shown from the main dataset which is the best dataset because it has forecasting results that are closest to the actual data.
